The decisions we make on a daily basis shape the type of person we are along with the type of person others see us as, when a child is young they are guided and do not have much of a say in decison making however as and individual gets older they are expected to start making their own decisions. Decision making can be complex for some individuals while on the other hand for some deciding what they want is something that comes naturally. Every one makes different decisions and thus lead different lives based on the choices they take however we are not always free in the choices we make their is a variety of different components which shape our ability to make decisions.
 
The choices an individual makes on a daily basis have a lot to do with cultural or religious beliefs, different cultures have different teachings and different outlooks on what is acceptable and what is forbidden. Parents raise their children according to the way they think and the type of person they would like their child to become. Many parents have certain expectations from their children regarding the decisions they make based on cultural beliefs that the parents or other family members expect their child to follow and abide by. The society one lives in also has a huge impact on the decisons you make, individuals are expected to act in certain ways in certain societies and not doing so may cause conflicts. Thus, cultural and societal teachings and expectations impact a large amount of our ability to make choices and often leave us with limited to no choice at all.
 
The circumstances we are in is another factor which often limits the decisions we make and we do not always have a choice in the circumstances we are put into. An example of this is when a child is born into a very poor family which hardly has enough food to put on the table they automatically are limited to making many decisions in their life such as if they would like to have a proper eductation. They may not be able to pursue their dreams of having an education due to the circumstances of their family which may not be able to afford giving their child an education at all. Someone with completely different circumstances on the other hand would have a completely different set of choices in their lives which would allow them to make completely different decisions.
 
Laws and regulations have an immense amount of control on the decisions one can make, most of the time there are consequences when the law is broken or bent. In Canada we have many rules and regulations which every individual is suppose to follow and not question since it is meant for the well being of everyone. An example of how strong a hold laws can have on a persons decision making can be seen when an individual is interested in starting their own business in Canada. There are many strict rules and a number of expectations one must complete in order to begin their own business. These regulations and restrictions often have a great impact on the decisions one makes and can affect ones ability to be able to start a business at all if they are not able to live upto these expectations. Since there are usually harsh consequences when a rule or law is broken, people are scared to think or do anything other than what is set for them by the government. 
 
To conclude, decision making is shaped by a number of different aspects such as cultural and societal beliefs, individual circumstances and laws and regulations. We may not see it or feel it however we do not always have a choice and often our decisons have already been made for us. An individual may be confronted with many problems if they do not take anything into consideration when they make decisons, thus wanting to avoid this and the fear of consequences we do not always have a choice or say in every decision we make throughout life.
 
